Refactoring server SQL queries, part 2 (#7660)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/development/how-to-write-sql-queries.md

    assert for_update ^ for_share
    share_or_update = "SHARE" if for_share else "UPDATE"
    return Q(f"""
      SELECT last_timestamp
      FROM common_topic
      JOIN organization ON common_topic.organization = organization._id
      WHERE organization_id = $organization_id
      FOR {share_or_update}
    """)

_q_check_common_topic = _make_q_lock_common_topic(for_share=True)
_q_lock_common_topic = _make_q_lock_common_topic(for_update=True)
```

## Tips & Tricks

### The COALESCE expression

From [Conditional Expressions: COALESCE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-conditional.html#FUNCTIONS-COALESCE-NVL-IFNULL):

> The `COALESCE` function returns the first of its arguments that is not null.
> Null is returned only if all arguments are null. It is often used to
> substitute a default value for null values when data is retrieved for
> display.

In Parsec, you'll sometimes see code like this:

```sql
AND COALESCE(revoked_on > some_parameter, TRUE)
```

This takes advantage of the fact the following fact that ordinary comparison
operators yield null, not true or false, when either input is null. So the

> previous example will return `TRUE` if `revoked_on` is null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
previous example will return `TRUE` if either `revoked_on` or `some_parameter are null.
```

I understand that `COALESCE` will return the value of the first expression that is not null.
But is it true that when doing a comparaison `a > b` if `a` is null then the result is also null ?
And does that apply if `b` is null ?

Author: Yep. Acording to the docs: 

> Ordinary comparison operators yield null (signifying “unknown”), not true or false, when either input is null. For example, 7 = NULL yields null, as does 7 <> NULL. When this behavior is not suitable, use the IS [ NOT ] DISTINCT FROM predicates
 https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-comparison.html

Reviewer: If I understand that correctly both `5 > NULL` and `NULL > 5` return NULL

Author: Yes, in the lines you commented I put only `revoked_on` because I was referring to that concrete example. 
You prefer to specify that works with either input ?

Reviewer: Yes, I would prefer or specify if the firsts expressions are null

Author: Done

<!-- Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 2016-present Scille SAS -->

# How to write SQL queries

The goal of this document is to describe best practices and conventions for
writing SQL queries in Parsec.

## Components and queries

PostgreSQL components are implemented in`./server/parsec/components/postgresql/`.

Each component is responsible for a specific set of tables. So to find out
in which component you should write your query, ask yourself which component
is responsible for the set of tables you will be requesting.

For convenience, queries are defined at the top of each component file in order
to be close to the methods using them (as you often go back and forth between
the two).

> Components might expose methods to other components in order to access tables
> specific tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Components might expose methods to other components in order to access specific tables.
```
